are you thinking of taking on the
humorist role at your local Toastmasters
Club but you're not exactly sure what
the role should look like don't worry
you've come to the right video because
in this video I'm going to show you a
live example of myself performing the
humorist role at my local Toastmasters
Club in British Columbia Canada hey
everyone my name is Wade Patterson I am
passionate about impactful communication
and whether this is the first time
you've landed on one of my videos or if
you've watched several in the past I
would encourage you please subscribe to
my channel it helps me do what I love
doing which is putting out these videos
to help make you a better Communicator
because it's my strong belief that
whether it's your personal life or
whether it's business related impactful
communication is one of the best skills
you can have and I'm here to help learn
to become a better Communicator along
with you but hopefully guide you in the
way and give you some pointers and
examples of how you can be a better
public speaker so as I mentioned in this
video I'm going to show you a live
example of me doing the humorist role
but before I get to that I want to say
two quick things the first the meeting
that I did this role at was a little bit
out of the ordinary it was a bit chaotic
because the sergeant-at-arms of that
meeting slept in bless them we have a
early morning meeting and skip the alarm
so he was there a little bit late and
since the humerus comes near the top of
the agenda a few of us Toastmasters
members were scrambling trying to get
the room set up beforehand we often do a
hybrid meeting so we have guests on zoom
and we have people in person and so
there was a lot of hands on deck trying
to figure out the room you may notice
some noise in the background at one
point you see a gentleman run behind me
run behind the stage a little bit of
chaos going on but I'll chat about that
after you see the live example the
second thing to mention is that our
Toastmasters Club recently tweaked our
humorist role which some clubs call the
joke Master role into a second option
which is an inspirational thought club
members can choose whether they want to
do the humorist piece and try to make
the club laugh or if they simply want to
inspire the club with an inspirational
thought related to the theme in this
example you're about to watch I try to
kind of combine both I try to make it
funny and inspirational you be the judge
of whether or not I accomplish that one
final thing I want to point out is that
I've actually done a full YouTube video
on how to take on the humorist role it
doesn't show the live example but I get
in depth on what to think about check
out that video I will link to it in the
description alright enough of that now
let's actually take a look at the live
video example of me performing the
humorist role at my Toastmasters Club
thank you madam Toastmaster fellow
Toastmasters in person and on Zoom good
to see everybody
sometimes it's difficult to understand
what somebody's intention is
and sometimes by the time we do
understand it's simply too late
a number of years ago our family went to
Australia we're visiting my auntie and
my uncle my two little cousins
and it was a beautiful day at the park
and there was a big fountain in the
middle of the park and my brother and I
were taking turns racing my little
cousins around this fountain
my sister was sat with our family and
she was confused because she watched
race after race as my much younger
cousins kept beating my brother and I
she was thinking the math isn't adding
up I mean they're much younger my
brothers are athletic what is happening
here and she had to find out for herself
so she stepped up and she asked her my
little cousins if if she could race them
and she got to the starting line and
I've never seen such determination in my
sister's eyes it should look like a
sprinter ready to hop off the blocks and
as soon as we said go she began
sprinting
arms waving back and forth leaving my
cousins behind in the dust and as she
crossed that makeshift Finish Line that
we had created she had her hands in the
air Victorious
and it was at that moment she looked
back at my little cousins who looked sad
deflated and then she looked at my
brother and I who gave her a look as if
to say Shauna what the hell are you
doing
and it was at that moment she realized
the intentions of my brother and I to
let our little cousins win to feel good
about themselves
and at that moment she learned an
important lesson that sometimes it's not
about winning the race sometimes it's
more important to know what somebody's
intention truly is thank you
all right so there you have it there was
my example now let's talk about what I
did well and what I could have done
better and should keep in mind to
improve the next time I take on the
humorist role at my club the first thing
I thought I did pretty well was
overcoming the distractions
I mentioned it earlier in the video but
there was a lot going on at the
beginning of the meeting you saw a
gentleman run behind me mid-speech with
that in mind I think that I managed to
not get derailed as I was speaking I
managed to stay on topic
it definitely was a little bit
distracting but thankfully I didn't let
that stop me I got through the one to
two minute humorous role what I've
learned is that as a Toastmaster or as
any public speaker when a distraction
happens you have two options option
number one is to acknowledge it and
option number two is to ignore the
distraction acknowledging the
distraction makes sense when it's
something that is so significant that by
not acknowledging it it would almost
seem odd or out of place for example if
somebody gets up during your speech and
then walking back to their chair they
trip over or completely fall down
you don't want to make fun of that
person per se but to not mention
anything might seem odd when people are
going to be distracted they're going to
see that this happened so of course
Beyond making sure that the person's
okay you could maybe make some sort of
acknowledgment of how that ties into the
speech like yeah I stumbled on this idea
as well thank you for illustrating
exactly how I felt when I learned this
New Concept something that's light
somewhat humorous that is a powerful way
to re-capture the audience's attention
and acknowledge a distraction but if the
distraction is something smaller for
example maybe the people in the room
next door are being loud and there's no
point really bringing that up or
acknowledging it if it's simply a little
bit distracting you just adjust and you
ignore that distraction to adjust you
bring up your vocal level higher
increase the decibels and maintain your
audience's attention by just blocking
out the distraction in this example of
the humerus that I gave earlier the
gentleman who ran behind me I didn't
want to embarrass him he was doing a
great job setting up the room and
helping us out therefore I just ignore
the distraction speak loud enough to
keep the audience's attention on me and
push through a second thing I think I
did pretty well in this humorist example
was using a personal story in my
experience personal stories work much
better for generating audience laughter
than canned jokes or things that you
find online that somebody suggests are
funny I've seen many people try to take
somebody else's jokes and read them one
at a time off of a piece of paper and
usually unless that person is very
charismatic and has a great sense of
humor
these jokes fall flat but what works
really well are personal stories that
are funny especially if they're
self-deprecating humor or
self-deprecating humor is used in those
stories because it's putting yourself in
a vulnerable position and the audience
always appreciates that they can see
themselves in your shoes suffering
through maybe it's an embarrassing
moment or something along those lines
the audience will empathize with your
situation and if it's a funny story they
are going to laugh almost guaranteed at
whatever pain you went through because
it's a relatable situation whenever
possible use personal stories over
canned materials especially during the
humorist role all right so what could I
have done better in this humorous role
or what is something that I need to
improve for the next time the first
thing is it wasn't as funny as I was
hoping hoping it would be
this is a story I have told in other
situations and usually it generates more
laughter and I don't want to use any
excuses I think a lot of the things that
were happening in the club that day
maybe were taking people's attention
away a little bit we had a relatively
small meeting that day but the reality
is I didn't really have the audience
laughing and that's on me there are
certain ways I could have improved the
delivery of that story including
strategic pauses to almost encourage the
laughter or more facial expressions so
I'm the one who's at fault there for not
generating more laughter but perhaps
that was also a product of trying to do
the hybrid of humorist and inspirational
it fell a little bit flat in my opinion
on the humor side the second thing I
could have done a little bit better is
timing according to our timer I wrapped
up that humorous rule at exactly two
minutes which is technically an
appropriate amount of time it's supposed
to be between one and two minutes but
man I was pushing it on the long End
Future humorous roles I should probably
dial that back by about 15 seconds to be
safe and that way I'm not rushing at the
end to ensure that I finish my role
before I see the red light at our
Toastmasters Club you may be wondering
what our general evaluator had to say
about my speech and I think I got pretty
lucky because she went easy on me she
said overall she thought it was a really
great humorous role and she said that it
added in inspirational piece which was
well done so positive feedback from our
general evaluator I personally am always
going to be more critical on myself
because I do think that there were areas
I could have improved on this humorous
role and I will try to do so in my
future speeches I hope that this video
this live example has given you a bit of
a reference point and hopefully helps
you and encourages you to take on the
humorist role this is a role I encourage
new club members to take on because you
can prepare for it I notice a lot of new
Toastmasters members are often hesitant
to sign up for roles but all that means
is that they're more likely to get asked
table topics questions and those are the
hardest to answer because you can't plan
for them whereas by signing up for the
humorist role controlling your own
destiny that is something that you can
practice throughout the week when you
get to your Toastmasters Club this is
something that you've already gone
through and in my opinion that is much
easier than taking a random table topics
question so if you are new to
Toastmasters and you haven't done the
humorous role please sign up for it it
is a great role and by dialing in your
humor that is one of the most powerful
skills you can develop as a public
speaker and it's going to help you
engage your audience in a big way thanks
so much for watching this video as I
mentioned at the beginning please
subscribe to my channel if you haven't
already done so and if you have thank
you I appreciate it thank you for
staying subscribed I understand that you
have the option to unsubscribe at any
point thank you for staying subscribed
to my channel watching my video content
I really appreciate it it is my goal to
put out a lot more content just like
this thank you so much for watching this
video if you are looking for a little
bit of coaching help with your next
speech I am providing one-on-one
evaluations my contact email is in the
video description reach out to me and
let's discuss what that could look like